[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Our dear friend, Richard Dolan,
with us, well known as one
of the world's leading
UFO researchers.
He has written four classic
historical books on UFOs,
as well as the series
"False Flags" here on Gaia,
and appears regularly on
television, my radio show,
"Coast to Coast," and
other shows, as well.
And he is the publisher of
the Richard Dolan Press.
And you do a great
job with that, Rich.
>>RICHARD DOLAN: Hi, George.
Thanks for having me on,
and I appreciate that.
>>NOORY: Things
seem to be changing
in the field of ufology.
More information seems
to be coming out.
What's going on?
>>DOLAN: It's an amazing thing.
Really, I think we can almost
identify things kicking
off sometime during 2017, and
they have gone into high gear
ever since over the
past two-plus years now.
It's not something
that I would have
been able to predict
much prior to that.
I think many of us have
been working in the UFO
field for many, many years.
I, certainly, was
wondering, how long
are we going to be
researching, researching?
And are we just spinning
our wheels here?
Is there anything new going
to be happening in the larger
culture?
And then suddenly, in 2017,
many things began to change.
And it I think it culminated
with the phenomenal coverage
that we got in the mainstream
media, "New York Times"
and "Politico," at
the end of the year.
>>NOORY: Oh, huge.
Huge.
>>DOLAN: And I think
it shocked everyone.
What's going on?
My short answer, I guess,
is that maybe history
is speeding up a little bit.
The long answer, I'm still
trying to work that one out.
But I think that we're in an era
where more and more toothpaste
is coming out of that tube.
And I ask myself, when
will we get to a point
where it becomes an undeniable
momentum on its own?
And maybe we're heading
into that already.
>>NOORY: Steve Bassett from
the Paradigm Research Group
has been pushing for government
disclosure on UFOs for years.
I'm at odds with Steven.
I love the guy, but
I've always told him,
it's not going to
come from government.
What do you think?
>>DOLAN: I go back
and forth on this.
I would say that
I wouldn't expect
an honest, voluntary disclosure
from a government source.
And the more I think
about it, I don't even
know if it's possible.
When I really wonder about
this, how much information
does the government
really have, as compared
with maybe privatized,
highly secret,
compartmented organizations?
But having said that,
I do agree with you
that I've never
expected any government
to have a motivation to want
to get in front of this.
And like you, I've
argued with Steven.
Steven's a friend of
mine, and our arguments
go back more than 15,
almost 20 years on this.
>>NOORY: Yeah, same thing.
>>DOLAN: He would say,
well, it's going to happen.
He said it in the
George W. Bush years.
He said it during
the Obama years.
And I've just never
been on board.
>>NOORY: He's put together some
great conferences and events
which would
illustrate what would
happen if disclosure occurred.
But it's just not
coming from government.
If it happens, it's going
to come from organizations,
groups, AATIP, for example.
Tell us about that.
>>DOLAN: Well yeah,
AATIP, and then
of course, the group that
is pushing that is TTSA,
To The Stars Academy.
So the AATIP revelation
was one of these rather,
I don't want to say
shocking, but almost shocking
revelations that we
got at the end of 2017
from "The New York
Times" and "Politico,"
and that is this Advanced
Aerospace Threat Identification
Program that was
out of the Pentagon.
>>NOORY: $22 million
program, something like that.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, not a lot
of money over five years.
Of course, we're
finding that there
are other programs, as well.
But having said that,
the fact that there
was an admission at all, coming
from the number one established
source of information,
"The New York Times"
basically, you don't get any
more establishment than that,
acknowledging that the
Pentagon was studying UFOs
quite recently.
So that was a major moment
where those of us who
had known that there
was something going on
felt that moment of vindication.
And on top of that, what they
pointed out in that article
was that they had
recovered materials
from these alleged UAP or UFOs.
And of course, they talked
about some amazing military
encounters, or at least one
in particular that took place
in '04.
But yeah, you mention AATIP,
and where is disclosure
going to come from?
And I think we're in a
situation, quite possibly,
where we're looking
at there's definitely
some coordination going on in
the release of information.
So the real question is,
where is it coming from?
>>NOORY: Is it timely and
strategic, the release?
>>DOLAN: It seems
to me that there's
a method to all of this.
For example, "The New
York Times" and "Politico"
releasing their information
on the same day.
For example, more recently, you
have another "New York Times"
article in 2019
coinciding almost
within days of the
roll-out of the television
show "Unidentified" on
the History Channel,
coinciding with
other news stories
within a month of the Navy
updating its UAP guidelines
and so forth.
So there definitely seems to be
a coordinated effort going on
here.
And again, the question is,
who's doing the coordinating?
And I don't think that we've
really got the full answer.
Is it the CIA, as
some people have said?
Or is it simply that
these guys in TTSA,
they've all got intelligence
community backgrounds,
and they've got their
media connections,
so are they a faction that,
for their own purposes,
is promoting some
sort of disclosure?
And I don't really know that we
have the answers to that yet.
>>NOORY: Who is Luis Elizondo?
>>DOLAN: Luis Elizondo is
someone that, I'll just say,
I've not spoken
with him personally,
but he is certainly,
along with Tom DeLonge,
and probably now
even more than Tom
DeLonge, the real face of TTSA.
He certainly was the face of
the TV show "Unidentified,"
without a doubt.
He's always described the same
way, as a career intelligence
officer within the Pentagon.
>>NOORY: The real
deal, we think.
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
Not someone who has
been with CIA, as
has been alleged
from time to time.
I've seen no evidence of that.
He may have worked with them,
but he's a Pentagon guy,
and he's in intelligence there.
There's a lot that's
not known, in my view,
even now about why
he left when he did,
what left the Pentagon
to join with TTSA.
And having said all of that,
what I'm interested in,
fundamentally, is the
content of what he is saying
and the actual information
that he and the folks at TTSA
are providing.
Motivations are
one thing, and it's
important to
analyze motivations.
But ultimately, it's
really hard to know
and to speculate on what
everyone's motivation is
or what their game plan is.
Meanwhile, I'm much
more interested
in actually seeing
what they're saying
and what information
they are giving us.
And on that basis, I would
say that he and his team
have given us quite
a lot of information
to work with over these
last couple of years.
>>NOORY: You've mentioned
"The New York Times"
and some other revelations.
MSNBC had a chance to
interview Elizondo.
>> A recent report by
"The New York Times"
unveiled the distance of a
real-life "X-Files" department.
It's a five-year secret
government program
to investigate mysterious
flying objects,
and especially
focused on encounters
by members of the
military, like this one.
>> My gosh.
They're all going
against the wind.
The wind's 120
knots to the west.
Look at that thing, dude.
>> We're going to talk
about that in a second.
The man who ran that
secret program now
says the existence of
UFO those have been
proved beyond reasonable doubt.
He joins me now.
Luis Elizondo, thank
you for joining us.
Tell me why you ended
up working for a program
that the Pentagon didn't
even want to admit existed?
It was the Defense Department's
Advanced Aerospace Threat
Identification Program.
It wasn't UFO hunters.
You were looking
for explanations
to things that were unexplained.
>> Yes, that's
correct, Mr. Velshi.
We basically were brought
into the program initially
to identify and
try to figure out
some of these phenomena
that were flying
around our military
aircraft and our locations,
and basically try to collect
enough data where we could
make some positive
analysis and identify
what these things were.
>> The things that I've been
reported are that it was $22
million spent over a few years.
It was people like you who had
other jobs in the military,
but came together to try
and figure these things out.
And that there were facilities
that were leased and built
to hold things that were found.
What can you tell me?
What can you tell me about
what this program did?
>> Sure.
Well, first and foremost,
just so your viewers
understand, I still hold
a security clearance,
so there are certain
things I, unfortunately,
will not be able to talk about.
>> Understood.
>> And because I'm no
longer employed with the US
government, you're going to
have to bring up some of these
questions with the US
government directly.
But I can tell you, from
our perspective, since 2008,
we collected a lot
of information.
Frankly, it wasn't just
eyewitness testimony.
It also included
signature data from radar.
Video, as well.
It also included other
eyewitness testimony
from radar operators that
were on scene, air traffic
controllers.
And so basically, we put all
this information together
to try to identify, if we
could, a signature-- basically,
something that gave us
a common picture of what
we were looking at.
And in many cases, we weren't
able to find what that was.
So it didn't match any signature
of a aircraft, or a drone,
or a missile, or anything
else from a DOD or Department
of Defense perspective that we
would normally be looking for.
>>NOORY: Richard, sounds
like Project Blue Book all
over again, doesn't it?
>>DOLAN: It does, but you
notice with this interview,
and a lot of the other ones that
we're seeing on the mainstream
media, is the tone.
This is a very serious tone.
Like, that's actually a
very major shift going on,
because these types of
encounters that Elizondo
is describing here--
they go back many,
many, many years.
In fact, this is
not a new thing.
But what's fascinating is,
and you saw this on MSNBC--
>>NOORY: And you got to
thank MSNBC for this.
>>DOLAN: You see it on CNN.
You see it on Fox.
They're all handling
this in a way that
is serious that had not
been the case in just
a few years earlier.
So there's a seismic shift
in the mainstream media
portrayal of this.
And in terms of the study
that they're talking about,
you've mentioned it's
like another Blue Book.
Yeah, to a certain extent,
I guess we could say that.
It's a government study
that's rebooting this,
let's look into
the UFO phenomenon.
The one thing that I've always
noticed that I have always
taken a little bit
of issue with is
how, when they're talking about
this UFO phenomenon nowadays,
it's as if there's no
history to this whatsoever.
>>NOORY: Like it just started.
>>DOLAN: Like it
just started, right.
So we're like, well,
we've got these sightings.
We don't know what they are.
Well, guess what?
These sightings go back-- we've
got crystal-clear documentation
going back to the 1950s, 1940s,
at the least of US government
documents describing
objects moving
at speeds in the multiple
thousands of miles per hour
and so on.
So it's not new.
And it's almost like
they're siphoning out
the history from
this phenomenon.
I think I know why
they're doing that.
I think it's basically a public
relations, political decision
they've made.
Nevertheless, it does
distort the actual narrative
of what's happening.
Even so, I'm very heartened
by the seriousness
that we're seeing in that
and other types of interviews
that we're getting in
the mainstream on this.
>>NOORY: Is Elizondo
the new J. Allen Hyneck?
>>DOLAN: I don't believe so, no.
He's a spokesperson.
When you look at the sum
total of what Hyneck did,
he genuinely was
studying these reports
for many, many years for
the United States Air Force.
>>NOORY: And I think Hyneck
always was a believer.
For some reason, I think
the government kind
of forced him to be a skeptic.
There's been some
discussion, for example,
that he was told
something about swamp gas.
Remember that one in Michigan?
>>DOLAN: Oh, yeah.
Right.
He always claimed that
Hector Quintanilla--
>>NOORY: Forced him to do it.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, he did say that.
Well, it's true what you say.
There's a Hyneck speech that
I was just recently reading
from like 1960, so this is
way before swamp gas happened.
In the depths of the Air
Force cover-up of UFOs,
Hyneck was their consultant.
And I read a lecture he gave
to some Air Force people.
And what was very clear is
he had a detailed knowledge
of the UFO phenomenon
through the '50s,
and he was obviously taking it
very seriously even back then.
So I would agree with you.
I think by virtue
of his position,
he was kind of forced into
that skeptical attitude.
So no, I don't think Elizondo
is quite like Hyneck,
but he's Elizondo.
And he's doing what he can in
his way to get this issue out
to the public.
I'm not saying that
there are no ulterior
motivations behind what
these guys are doing.
There probably are.
What I'm glad to see, and I
make no bones about saying this,
that I'm glad--
the kinds of research that I've
done in my histories of the UFO
phenomenon--
the military encounters, the
hundreds of military encounters
that we've documented--
that, in fact, do indicate cause
for national security concern.
And I wrote about
this to great lengths.
These are a lot of the
types of things that they're
talking about here now with
TTSA in their public statements,
and in their TV
show, "Unidentified."
So I'm glad to see that
some of this is getting out.
Whether we're dealing with
a genuine threat or not
is another issue.
But the fact is that these
are military encounters,
and the public needs
to know about them.
>>NOORY: If somebody like
Elizondo simply said,
I used to do this
for the government,
and then started speaking
the way he's speaking,
and he was not that person,
would the government
come forward and say, We
have no idea who this guy is.
He never worked for us.
I guess where I'm coming
from is, how do we
know he's the real deal?
>>DOLAN: Yeah, it's
a fair question.
Of course, Christopher
Sherwood of the Pentagon--
he's one of their
spokespersons--
made such a statement
not too long ago,
basically denying that
Elizondo was indeed
part of the AATIP program.
I remember when that came
out, and I was asked that day
for a comment.
And my answer then,
as it has always been,
is, I'll wait to see real
confirmation of that.
The fact is what I have come
to understand from journalists
and military people
that I've spoken
to about this is that there
is a war going on right now
within the Pentagon.
And there are Pentagon factions
that hate what TTSA is doing--
hate it.
And then there are
others that support it.
When a Pentagon spokesperson
makes a statement,
it could be true, or
it could not be true,
or there could be
some other nuance
that we're not getting yet.
So I'm just as soon waiting
to see what the full truth is.
But no, I've spoken to one
other individual within TTSA who
said, No, he absolutely
was working in AATIP
and he had a highly
responsible position there,
for what it's worth.
>>NOORY: What about
these artifacts
that you have mentioned?
What do they have?
>>DOLAN: Well, this is really
where it gets interesting,
because when "The New York
Times" article first came out
in December 2017, they
talked about mysterious metal
alloys-- was the phrase that
they used in that article.
But what we're
actually talking about
are what are known
as metamaterials.
What is a metamaterial?
I had to look this up,
just like everyone else.
So a metamaterial is a highly
engineered type of material,
particularly at the
microscopic level,
that is often described as
being constructed in what they
call lattice-like structures.
So I guess what
you could say is,
at a very, very
small, tiny level,
these are very sophisticated
artificially-constructed
materials.
>>NOORY: Much more than
carbon fibers, for example.
>>DOLAN: I guess so, yes.
And what we have
come to understand
is that they are in
possession of multiple samples
of metamaterial.
Now, there's one that's
fairly well-known.
This has been discussed by
the physicist, Hal Puthoff,
in the middle of 2018.
>>NOORY: And he's with
To The Stars Academy.
>>DOLAN: He is indeed.
I think he's listed as basically
the chief of their science
division.
Now, Hal Puthoff is
the one person in TTSA
that I do know
personally and I've
spoken to on many occasions.
He gave an absolutely
astonishing lecture
in June of 2018 for the Society
of Scientific Exploration.
And this is a lecture
that's still available.
It's on the web.
People can look for it.
The point is, what he
did is he described
this artifact, this material,
and it is extraordinary.
His statement was,
well, this allegedly
came from a crash retrieval.
During the 1990s, his
lab looked at this.
And he said, for
the longest time,
they couldn't even figure
out not only who could have
made it, but what it was for.
>>NOORY: And the
composition, right?
>>DOLAN: Yeah, so it's a very,
very fine series of layers
of bismuth and magnesium.
And they're like,
What is this for?
We have no idea.
And then he said,
Well, we've eventually
realized what it can be for.
He said, Only recently, we
discovered it is a very--
he called it an
outstanding wave guide
for high frequency
electromagnetic radiation,
terahertz range.
Had to look all that up.
So with that meant,
essentially, is
that it provides an
anti-gravitic effect.
It's a wave guide.
It guides a wave and
creates some version
of an anti-gravitic effect.
So this is the skin of
the craft, apparently.
That's a takeaway that
I'd never really thought
about, to be honest with you.
When we talk about how
these UFOs do what they do,
we're thinking of their engine.
But what about the skin
of the craft itself?
And in his estimation,
that's what this
appears to be functioning as.
>>NOORY: And it's very physical.
>>DOLAN: And it's
something that, when
you look at the level
of the engineering,
we're talking down to
the nanometer level,
and even apparently down
to the Angstrom level.
This is a level of
engineering that, as far
as I've been able to see,
we are not there yet.
And what I would like to
see is additional scientific
laboratories really
dig into this
because one lab is
important, but we
need many, many
confirmation labs here.
And I would love
to see that happen.
>>NOORY: And how did we
get the material, Richard?
>>DOLAN: This came
to Coast to Coast
back in the '90s, back
in the Art Bell days.
>>NOORY: The Art's Parts.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
He gave it to Linda Moulton
Howe, who held it for a while,
and she shopped it around.
And one of the
places she shopped
it too was Hal Puthoff's lab.
So that's the whole
story of that.
And it's really
quite fascinating.
So there's no provenance.
We don't really know where
this ultimately is from,
but we've known about
it since the '90s.
And that's interesting.
That's at least 25 years.
Even aside from the
provenance, the material
itself seems to be
quite extraordinary.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
>>DOLAN: It's quite
amazing, and allegedly
from a UFO crash retrieval.
That's the story.
>>NOORY: When "The
New York Times"
came out with its story
about the military chasing
the Tic-Tac-looking UFO--
Tic Tac being the little mint--
let's take a look
at the CNN report
about this incredible
Tic Tac UFO case.
>> Commander David Fravor still
can't explain what he says he
saw that day.
November 2004.
The Navy fighter pilot was
on a training mission west
of San Diego when he was
ordered to check out something
in the water not far away.
On a clear day,
over a smooth ocean,
he saw the object,
waves breaking over it,
and says he saw something
hovering above it.
>> It's randomly moving north,
south, east, west, just random.
Just stopping, going
the other direction,
like you could do
with a helicopter,
but a little bit more abrupt.
And it looked like a
40-foot-long Tic Tac
with no wings.
>> Fravor says he and
his four-man team tracked
the object for several minutes
until it just disappeared.
Tonight, CNN has
learned the Pentagon had
a secretive program
to research UFOs,
like the one Fravor spotted.
>>NOORY: What do
you think that was?
>>DOLAN: Well, it's a UFO.
It's the kind of
UFO that we have
records of going back to the
1940s, at the very least.
What's interesting
here is you've
got a witness, David Fravor,
who is of a very high caliber.
He's an experienced
Navy pilot, and he
was willing to go on the
record about his experiences.
And of course, since
then, since that came out,
we've had a number of
additional witnesses, who
were part of the Nimitz and
the Princeton group that
was out into the ocean off
the coast of California who
have provided additional
detail on this.
So really, it's an amazing case.
But this object,
described as a Tic Tac
roughly 40 feet in
diameter, they're
vectored in because they
had been tracking this.
The battle group and been
tracking this for some time--
days and weeks, in fact--
doing incredible maneuvers
tracked on the radar,
at one point dropping
28,000 feet in 0.78 seconds.
It was just extraordinary.
That's over 20,000
miles per hour.
So they get it now, and they've
got two F/A-18 Super Hornets
out there at the time,
and they're vectored in.
So Fravor sees it, and as he's
described this many times,
he's circling around
to go down to it,
and it rises up from the ocean
surface and circles around him
like this.
And it comes up and then shoots
off at an unbelievable speed.
And he's always
said, visibility was
perfect for 10 miles,
and general visibility
for 50 miles.
That thing was out of
sight in two seconds.
So even if you do a
conservative estimate
of 10 miles in two
seconds, you're
talking something like
9,000 miles per hour.
We don't have anything
officially that can do that.
And what strikes me in looking
at the history of this is,
we have reports going
back to the late '40s
where those exact speeds were
being reported back then.
And they have always
been reported on and off
over the years by
military personnel.
So to me, when you ask what
that is, I say, that is a UFO.
>>NOORY: Is this UFO playing
cat and mouse with us?
>>DOLAN: What it seems to me
is that there's a long history
of these objects snooping
or peeking at US military--
>>NOORY: Testing.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, or exercises.
And they're there.
So this is a battle group
maneuver in the ocean.
They were doing important war
game exercises and so forth.
And it seems like it
got someone's attention.
That's what it looks like to me.
Again, this is an
old story, George.
This has been going on for
decades and generations.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
It's just great it's
starting to come out
of the public limelight
with mainstream media.
>>DOLAN: That's the difference.
It's not that this
is something new.
It isn't something new.
But what is new is, at
least in the modern era,
the way that this has been
covered by the establishment
media.
That is the shocking change.
>>NOORY: Do you feel vindicated
when you see stories like this?
I mean, you've
devoted your life,
your career to the subject.
>>DOLAN: On one
level, I've never
felt that I would
need vindication
from an official source to
say oh, yeah, you've been
on the right track all along.
I've been very confident
all these years
that I've been on at least
a correct enough path
to say that there is a
genuine phenomenon that
has not been fully explained.
And it's important,
and we need to have
a public discussion on it.
But yeah, there's the
vindication in the sense
that we're now beginning to
have that public discussion.
And I'm very glad about that.
We have a long way to go.
We're still taking baby steps.
There's many, many
questions that have not yet
been asked publicly about
the nature of the cover-up.
This is very important, and it's
a real thing that's going on.
And we're not really
getting into that here.
But when I really think about
the depths of the UFO secrecy
that has occurred for more
than 70-plus years now,
it becomes obvious
to me that this
is a really tough thing just
to snap your fingers and say,
it's all out.
I don't think it's
going to work that way.
10 years ago, I co-authored
a book on disclosure.
We called it "After Disclosure."
And our supposition back then--
we were writing this in 2009,
2010--
was that a disclosure
event would
be a sudden, earth-shattering
avalanche of something that
would be unstoppable.
And I think now that
I would modify that,
and I would say
this, that there's
a long ramp-up to
that full disclosure.
I think there is an avalanche
moment that will happen,
but we're not there yet.
And I think what we're
seeing in the meantime are
all of these little,
little steps that,
for better or for worse--
and often for worse--
that the establishment
mainstream media is
pushing out very, very slowly.
But they're doing it,
and it's very, very slow.
But again, it's like
toothpaste out of the tube.
Once it's out, it's
not going back in.
So we're seeing more and more
of this information now coming
out.
And we're looking at clips
of the initial reporting,
of course, of the Tic
Tac UFO and of AATIP,
but there's been more
and more information
that has been coming out, some
of it in unofficial tweets
by the TTSA folks, and some
in interviews that they're
given on various networks.
And there's more and more
information coming out.
>>NOORY: How important it
is the To The Stars Academy?
>>DOLAN: Well, I think they've
done something very important,
something that frankly, no
one else has been able to do.
They've been able to
take this subject,
which has been relegated
to the fringe for so long,
and they've been able to move
it right here to a mainstream
conversation where we're not
getting the "X-Files" music.
We're not getting
the giggle factor.
We're getting a
serious conversation.
That's something that no
one has been able to do,
and they did it.
Now, they've done it because
they are a series of government
insiders, and they've
done it because they
have those connections that
many people on the outside
will look down on, and
despise, and say, well, you're
just part of the establishment.
Well, be that as it
may, they've done it.
So that's important.
And we need to keep looking at
the motivations of those people
who are pushing this,
absolutely, but I just
feel like we don't want to lose
sight of the accomplishment--
and it is an
accomplishment-- by getting
this fringe subject to a
place where we're actually
able to have public
conversations about this.
>>NOORY: Rock star Tom DeLonge,
who put this organization
together--
I would see him at events
for years, Richard,
and I'd always say, well,
he's a rock star who's
just interested in UFOs.
>>DOLAN: Right, exactly.
>>NOORY: And all of
a sudden, one day,
this organization popped up.
And I went, wow.
He pulled it together.
>>DOLAN: Well, he ran into them.
They ran into him.
I think you had a
lot of people who
saw a mutual symbiosis here.
And yes, it's been put
together in a way that
is getting a lot of traction.
They made a couple
of gaffes, a couple
of mistakes out of the gate.
Having a picture
of a mylar balloon
as a UFO on their first
presentation to the public
was something that
should have been avoided.
And there have been
other things, as well.
But I would say, yes, it's
been a fundamentally successful
venture that they've had.
Richard, we've been talking
about these two F/A-18s that
were chasing this Tic Tac.
An amazing, amazing story.
Let's look at it again, and
then we'll talk about it.
>> Yeah, that is a
[BLEEP] drone, bro.
>> There's a whole
fleet of them.
Look on the ASA.
>> My gosh.
>> They're all going
against the wind.
The wind's 120
knots to the west.
>> Look at that thing, dude.
>> That's not an
LNS though, it is?
>> That is an LNS, dude.
>> Well, if there's--
>> Look at that thing.
>> It's rotating.
>>NOORY: That can't be
Russian, can't be Chinese.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, that's
the so-called gimbal UFO,
and I agree with you.
I don't think it's
Russian or Chinese.
I've never seen a good argument
that would make that claim.
What's interesting is you
get these statements from the
To The Stars folks--
Elizondo, and
Christopher Mellon's
another one-- who
will say, well, we
don't know what
these things are,
and but let's just walk
ourselves through it.
No one has believed
that it's Russian.
There's not been one credible
explanation that it's Russian,
or Chinese, or any other nation.
There's been some
speculation that this
is some kind of
classified project
that the Americans have, and
that's always a possibility.
But there hasn't really
been any speculation
as to what that
could possibly be
that would explain it, either.
>>NOORY: And it's new
technology if it's
ours-- brand new technology.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, except
for the fact that, again,
as I've been saying, this is
just like every good UFO report
we've had for the
past 70-plus years.
Now, the videos
themselves don't really
prove that we're dealing
with genuine UFOs.
So my view is, I take the
video along with the testimony.
And when you look
at the testimony,
by Fravor and all the
other pilots, and this
includes off the Eastern
US coast in 2014, 2015,
the USS Roosevelt sightings,
which are also interesting.
All of these combined tell me
that there is a technology that
is not being explained.
And we do not know how to
explain this stuff yet.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Tell us about the
Roosevelt sightings.
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
It's very interesting.
So this came out in the second,
more recent "New York Times"
piece from 2019.
And this is a
series of interviews
done with Navy personnel.
The USS Roosevelt was doing
Naval exercises off the US East
Coast, the coast of Virginia,
even going down to Florida
at times, from 2014
to 2015 over, I think,
a nine-month period.
And what we are told is
that practically every day
during that period,
or most of those days,
they were dealing with UFOs.
And they were
dealing with objects
that were demonstrating
performance capabilities
that they did not
know how to explain.
And all of the classic
things that we see with UFO
reports over the years,
they were dealing with.
So this is an admission.
Now, 2014, 2015 is quite recent.
So there was one really
extraordinary event
they were describing.
It's really quite shocking.
On one occasion, you've got
these two F/A-18 Super Hornet
planes flying in tandem, I
believe about 100 feet apart.
It's not that far.
They're doing their
maneuvers, and an object
flies between them.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
Just out of nowhere?
>>DOLAN: I think at them
and between the aircraft.
Yes, it's whatever this was.
And just one of the pilots
apparently saw it well enough
to describe it as cube-shaped--
it's like, what does that--
with a sphere of some
sort in the middle.
And their attitude was, up
until now, we were thinking,
well, if this is some classified
thing that we're dealing with,
that's one thing.
But when they're
flying between us,
that's actually a
safety hazard, big time.
I read a military
piece that speculated
whether this might be
some kind of technology
that we've created.
But frankly, I didn't
find that particular piece
very persuasive, and I haven't
found anyone else who does.
There's really not a good
explanation for these sightings
off the US East Coast.
But yet, what we have
are some very, very,
again, experienced
Naval pilots talking
about this in great detail.
>>NOORY: If it's ours--
if-- it's anti-gravity.
It's got to be.
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
It's a non-traditional
propulsion system.
I would agree with
that, totally.
One of the things that we're
being told by these reports
is that these objects are
not emitting a typical heat
signature.
So you get the heat signature
from the burning of a fuel,
and it's very identifiable.
We know how to identify all of
these different specific heat
signatures.
These objects that they're
tracking on the infrared
are not giving off
the heat signal
that you would get from the
burning of any kind of fuel.
So they're doing something
radical, revolutionary
to be able to maneuver in
the air the way they do.
>>NOORY: If it's UFO--
extraterrestrial--
what are they doing?
Why are they doing this?
Why would they fly between
two aircraft, for example?
They're playing
games or something.
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
No, it's a good question.
I don't have the answer
to that one, George.
I don't know.
I wish I did.
Why have UFOs been doing what
they've been doing for the past
however many years that we've
been reliably reporting them?
This is really the question.
Back in the '50s, when we
thought this was a new thing,
the speculation
was, well, they're
surveilling us in advance
for some other major thing.
Well, it hasn't happened.
What we have,
instead, are thousands
of reports every year.
If I were to look at
this for the first time
and just ask myself,
what's happening?
I would think there's this
other infrastructure that's
just doing their thing, and
they're on this planet living
there--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: Always have been.
>>DOLAN: Maybe, yes.
But we're at a point
in our civilization
where we're developing
better and better technology
to detect them.
A hundred years ago, we
didn't have the ability
to detect almost
anything, really,
when you think about it.
We weren't even in the
air in a significant way,
a little more than
a century ago.
So now we're in the air.
And now we've got electronic
means of detection.
We've got all the other kinds
of very sophisticated means
of detection, and so now we
are detecting these things.
But what they're doing
is really the question.
Are they from another planet?
Well, I've gone on that
assumption for the longest
time, but I have to remind
myself, I don't really know.
Are they from another what
we would call a dimension
and they come in and out?
I don't know.
I don't really think I've got
the science for us to say.
>>NOORY: It seems like it's
a physical craft, obviously,
right?
>>DOLAN: Yes, absolutely.
I would say so.
And there's physical effects
that these objects have left.
And they've been recorded
for many, many years.
So there's a
definite physicality,
and there's a
definite, I would say,
technological element to this.
But there's other things
that are very strange.
And we need to continue to open
this up in the public realm
so that more and more smart
people can investigate this
and we can begin the process
really of working together.
As it's been for all these
last number of years,
you've had a very few dedicated
researchers doing their best
to figure it out, but
this is a tough problem,
and we need a lot of folks.
>>NOORY: The History Channel
has been doing a great job,
of course, with
"Ancient Aliens."
You've been on that program.
Their new show, now,
called "Unidentified."
How important are these programs
to getting the message out?
>>DOLAN: Well, they
are quite important.
Now, there's a whole
array of alternative media
that's been on YouTube
and everywhere else
where you've got people putting
a lot of information out there.
But nonetheless, the
established media--
the cable networks
and the like--
they have a lot of status.
They have a lot of power.
So when shows get on
those cable networks,
like the History
Channel or others,
they're important because
they have an ability,
in a way that YouTube
videos don't, of changing
public discussion.
And so I'm of two
minds about how
I feel about this, because
there's a big part of me that
does not like the
fact that you've
got this very powerful
controlled establishment that
really owns all of these
networks, owns all the cable.
And I think that we
really need to have
a strong discussion about the
controlled, established media.
Having said that, it's
overdue that that controlled,
established media is changing
the discourse on UFOs.
And particularly with
"Unidentified," I think,
they're presenting that
subject in such a way
that it's becoming harder
and harder for some
of these skeptics to
deny what's going on.
The kind of mental
gymnastics that they're
going to continue
to do is to deny
this is just going to be
more and more extreme.
And I think they're
going to be making
themselves look very foolish.
>>NOORY: It makes you walk
away shaking your head going,
we knew this.
We knew this.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, absolutely.
Totally agree.
>>NOORY: It's an exciting time.
>>DOLAN: It is, but
they're coming out
with it in a way that is well
presented, and it's relevant.
It's relevant
information, the cases
that they're talking about.
I mean, my goodness,
I was very surprised
when on "Unidentified," one of
the episodes talked about how,
back in 2004, you had all
these unknown guys coming
onto the USS Princeton
to steal the radar
data and all the electronic
data of the sighting.
>>NOORY: Take it away.
>>DOLAN: Well, yeah.
And I think that's
actually really important
because that's before AATIP
program supposedly existed.
So who are these guys?
Who's the organization that's
confiscating the UFO data back
in 2004?
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
Now, back to the
story about AATIP,
of course, and that program.
$22 million.
It was forced by the former
Senator Harry Reid from Nevada.
And some people have said
because of his relationship
with Bob Bigelow, who,
of course, is into UFOs,
and space, and he's
got the floating pod
up there for hotels that
he'd like to establish,
that he pushed it
and spearheaded it.
What do we know about that?
>>DOLAN: Well, I don't know
the whole, full backstory.
I'll start by saying that.
But also, my own
assessment of Mr. Bigelow
is that he is probably one
of the most knowledgeable
individuals on UFOs alive.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
And on "60 Minutes," when
confronted about UFOs,
he basically said, I don't
care what you people think.
They're real.
>>DOLAN: He was amazing
on it, and wouldn't
be cowed by the attempt to
shame him, either, which
I thought was very impressive.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>DOLAN: But back to the
contract, yeah, right.
People said, oh, it
was a sweetheart deal.
Harry Reid's given this to his
buddy, a $22 million freebie.
A, it's $22 million
over five years.
Even in the world
of Robert Bigelow,
I guess it's nice
to have it, but I
don't know how much of a
profit that really is for him.
And in defense money,
that's nothing whatsoever.
When you look at this study that
they ended up doing in AATIP,
Bigelow was, in all
likelihood, their best choice.
I actually believe
that this is so.
Now, there's a lot
that the AATIP program
did that we still do not know.
But one thing we
know that they did
is that Bigelow contracted with
Dr. Hal Puthoff, hired him.
And Puthoff, from what
I have understood,
said, look, probably
the best thing
I can do for you is to
get a sense of the science
of this phenomenon by asking for
white papers, research papers
from the leading experts
in a variety of fields
on where their field will be
in like 30-plus years from now.
And that's what he did.
He actually put out a
request for these papers
from a variety of
experts, and they
gave these futuristic studies
of various types of field.
From traversable
wormholes, to warp drive,
and everything else,
and was fascinating.
And Hal actually
said to me-- he said,
the one thing I didn't
tell these scientists is
that it was for a UFO
project out of the Pentagon.
But he told them
everything else.
And that's actually a
really intelligent study
to do, in my opinion.
Those papers-- they're on
a defense server right now.
And my understanding
is that they
are the most popular
papers of their type.
But it's in the
Pentagon, and everyone
wants to read these papers.
They're very advanced science.
>>NOORY: Wasn't Hal
involved with the government
for a long time in remote
viewing programs and everything
else?
>>DOLAN: Yes, absolutely.
So he was a civilian scientist
with NSA back in the '60s.
And in the 1970s, worked, of
course, famously through SRI--
Stanford Research
Institute-- for the CIA
to develop remote viewing
protocols with Russell Targ.
>>NOORY: And Ingo Swann.
>>DOLAN: And then
brought in Ingo Swann,
and they brought in
other remote viewers,
and developed that program.
It's kind of an
amazing accomplishment.
So they did that with CIA for,
I think, three or four years,
and then CIA
supposedly left that,
and they ended up working
with the military.
>>NOORY: We have a
friend who has passed on,
the late Dr. Edgar Mitchell,
Apollo 14 astronaut,
walked on the moon.
>>DOLAN: Yes, he did.
>>NOORY: There's been
a controversy lately
about some of his leaked papers.
What do we know about that?
And you are a part of this.
>>DOLAN: I am, indeed.
So back in 2006, I
was shown two pages
of a transcript
that ended up being
2 of the 15 pages
of the documents
that I've often described
as the Admiral Wilson leak.
This is my very
strong understanding
of the matter from the papers
of late Edgar Mitchell.
As far as we're able to put
this together is the following.
Edgar Mitchell passes away.
Certain of his papers relating
to the National Institute
of Discovery Science-- it's
NIDS with Robert Bigelow--
some of his other
private activities,
maybe with the
Noetic Institute--
these were legally and in
an aboveboard manner allowed
to go into private hands of
someone who knew Dr. Mitchell.
That is my understanding.
And this individual
has had the papers,
and a few other people
have known about it.
Digital copies have been
made of an unknown number
of these documents.
I do not know.
But I do know that
during 2018, they
were circulating very quietly
and privately among a very
few number of people.
And at the end of 2018.
>>NOORY: They did keep it quiet.
>>DOLAN: They did, indeed.
At the end of 2018, one
of these individuals
showed it to Grant
Cameron when they
were at a conference in Nevada.
So Grant knew about it.
And then a few months later,
somebody-- and I, to this day,
do not know who--
leaked that document
to me in April of 2019.
>>NOORY: And how did you get it?
>>DOLAN: It was through
a ProtonMail account.
I've never been
able to trace who
it is or know who it is yet.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
So they gave me a link to a
very, very quiet little site.
No one knew about this site.
It was a link, and
it was 15 full pages
of a conversation that clearly
came from the files of Edgar
Mitchell.
Now, the conversation's
very important,
and I'll try concisely to
describe it here for viewers.
It describes an event that
happened back in 1997.
In 1997, Dr. Steven
Greer, Dr. Edgar Mitchell,
and a few other people
were able to meet
at the Joint Chiefs of
Staff with the deputy head
of intelligence for the Joint
Chiefs who, at the time,
was an admiral named
Thomas R. Wilson.
Thomas Wilson later became
head of intelligence
for the Joint
Chiefs, and he later
became head of the Defense
Intelligence Agency, the DIA.
He was a very important guy.
And they were able to
get a meeting with him
and a few of his
colleagues all about UFOs.
>>NOORY: Which is unprecedented.
>>DOLAN: That's interesting.
Absolutely, very interesting.
From everything that we've
been able to understand,
Steven Greer gave a
presentation on this.
And the real
interesting stuff is
what happened in the aftermath.
And that's what this
15-page document describes.
>>NOORY: Backed up, OK.
>>DOLAN: So Wilson
started off by having
a two-hour conversation with
one of the people who attended
with Steven Greer, and
this was a Navy commander
named Will Miller.
They're both Navy guys,
and they're talking,
and they're having a
discussion about UFOs.
Wilson decides to follow up
on the potential of what Greer
was suggesting, which was a
deeply secret, potentially
rogue UFO-related technology
program within the Pentagon.
So that was the holy
grail he's looking for.
And according to these notes--
and I'll describe these
notes in a moment--
Wilson apparently
found this program
buried within a
special access program
within another special
access program--
very deeply hidden, run
by private contractors.
Finds the program manager of
this contracting organization.
Talks to them, gets
on a conference call
with the program manager,
and the security officer,
and the corporate attorney.
And he says, I need to be
regulating, or supervising,
or having some oversight
of your program.
They say, well, we'll
get back to you on that.
And they end up having
a face-to-face meeting--
the four of them--
and Wilson finds
out that, yes, they
are attempting to do reverse
engineering of technology that
is not from here.
It is not from this Earth,
not made by men, not
by human hands.
That's a quote that I remembered
reading in this document
back in 2006.
And this is in
these papers here.
But what ended up happening
is, in 2002, Dr. Eric
Davis of the National Institute
of Discovery Science, of NIDS,
under the employ
of Robert Bigelow,
a colleague of Hal Puthoff,
a friend of Edgar Mitchell--
so Davis is able to get a
meeting with Wilson in October
of '02, five years
after the fact,
and they sit in a car for
a little over an hour.
And Wilson apparently
unloaded all of this story
to Davis, who wrote detailed,
meticulous notes on that.
And those are the notes
partially that I read
in '06, and those are the
notes that have leaked in 2019.
So this is not an official
government document or anything
like that, but it is a
very detailed account
of a very important conversation
about alien technology
deep within the US government.
And the upshot of what
Wilson's foray into all of this
was that he was denied
access to the program.
>>NOORY: Well, that explains
why Edgar Mitchell, over all
these years, has always
admitted that UFOs
exist because he
would always tell me,
George, I never saw one.
I didn't see
anything on the Moon.
I haven't seen one fly by me.
But I'm told they exist.
It must have been these
notes and documents.
>>DOLAN: This is one
key element of it, yes.
So I think Edgar Mitchell
had a number of sources,
but this is one
important source.
There's no question in my mind.
>>NOORY: Where are we headed,
Richard, with this whole field,
now, of ufology?
>>DOLAN: Well, like I've often
been feeling for a while,
history is speeding up.
I think that we're in
a phase of our history
where a lot of things are
converging and speeding up.
I think a lot of it has
to do with our ability
to communicate with each other,
which the technology that
allows for the
transfer of information
is just exponentially, it
seems, going more and more
all the time.
And I think this is why,
fundamentally, we're
seeing an increase in the
amount of information relating
to the UFO subject
that is now coming out.
Look, we're also now
moving into space
in a way that goes way
beyond just the US government
and the old Soviet Union.
We now have a lot
of governments,
and we also have
private companies.
What we're seeing
is this expansion
of all of these groups.
We're moving into a new phase
of human civilization, whatever
that is going to entail.
And it seems to me, anyway, that
hiding a secret as fundamental
and as powerful as the UFO
subject cannot last forever.
This is a secret that's
got an expiration date.
My feeling is that there are
folks who are aware of this.
They are probably
doing everything
possible to facilitate
the end of that secret
in a way that works
best for them,
so their controlled
release of information.
But here's the thing about UFOs.
I don't think this is a
subject that can be tamed.
I think the UFO
subject is inherently
a wild subject, so
good luck trying
to have a controlled
release of the information.
I think what's going
to happen, instead,
is the more and more
information that comes out,
the more questions are going to
arise that will be inevitable.
And we are going, very
likely at some point--
I don't know when this will be--
to see a kind of
avalanche effect
occur where it's not a
controlled disclosure,
but an uncontrolled disclosure.
And when that
happens, buckle up.
It's going to be a bumpy ride.
>>NOORY: Richard, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>DOLAN: Thank you, George.
It was a pleasure.
>>NOORY: You can
thank your lucky stars
we have investigators like
Richard Dolan who investigate
the truth about UFOs.
And maybe one day, we'll
really understand the fact
that we are not alone.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]